shibata translated 2 files and revised format for 2 JP files (#17)
fujitake/vantiq-related: vantiq-operations/docs/eng/vantiq-install-closed-network-azure.md

# Considerations for Closed Network Configuration (Azure)

## Internal Load Balancer

When creating a Load Balancer in a Closed Network, it is necessary to consider the followings.

- The Load Balancer must be configured as an internal Load Balancer and not have a Public IP.  
- The Load Balancer must be connected to the intended subnet and can be managed by the NSG.  

> For AKS, add the annotations to `nginx.controller.service` property in the `deploy.yaml`. If necessary, it is possible to specify Subnet and IP with the annotation. [Use an internal load balancer with Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/internal-lb). The following is an example of placing a Load Balancer on a subnet with a specified name.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For AKS, add the annotations to `nginx.controller.service` property in the `deploy.yaml`. If necessary, it is possible to specify Subnet and IP with the annotation. [Use an internal load balancer with Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/internal-lb). The following is an example of placing a Load Balancer on a subnet of the specified name.  
```

```yaml
nginx:
  controller:
    tls:
      cert: xxx.xxx.full.crt
      key: xxx.xxx.key
    service:
      annotations:
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/azure-load-balancer-internal: "true"
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/azure-load-balancer-internal-subnet: "<target_subnet_name>"
```

### Configure Security Group

> Configure it to restrict access from the Internet. Also, since the LoadBalancer does not perform SNAT, it is necessary to set the same permissions on the AKS worker nodes as the NSG set on the LoadBalancer. This means that if the Load Balancer and the AKS worker nodes are on different Subnets, the same settings should be made on each Subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure it to restrict access from the Internet. Also, since the LoadBalancer does not perform SNAT, it is necessary to set the same permission rules on the AKS worker nodes as that set on the LoadBalancer. This means that if the Load Balancer and the AKS worker nodes are on different Subnets, the same settings should be done on each Subnet.
```

![azure-nsg-aks](../../imgs/vantiq-install-closed-network-azure/azure-nsg-aks.png)

## Configure Private Endpoint

> AKS, Storage and Azure Database for PostgreSQL are configured as public services respectively by default, so they will not be able to be accessed from the Closed Network. Therefore, it is necessary to configure each service as Private. The followings need to be considered.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AKS, Storage and Azure Database for PostgreSQL are configured as public services by default, so they will not be able to be accessed from the Closed Network. Therefore, it is necessary to explicitly configure each service as Private. The followings need to be considered.  
```

> - When configured as private, [the IP is numbered in the specified subnet](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-overview#private-endpoint-properties). As this IP is indefinite each time it is configured, DNS registration is required to ensure that the application can refer to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When configured as private, [the IP is assigned from the ranges of the specified subnet](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-overview#private-endpoint-properties). As this IP is indefinite each time it is configured, DNS registration is required to ensure that the application can resolve IP by name.
```

> - Create a Private DNS Zone and register the FQDN. In Azure Portal, by setting it to Private, it is automatically configured, whereas in terraform, it is necessary to create each resource individually. The followings are samples of terraform scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a Private DNS Zone and register the FQDN. In Azure Portal, Setting it to Private will automatically configure the whole set of required resources, whereas in terraform, it is necessary to create each resource individually. The followings are samples of terraform scripts.
```

  resource_group_name = var.resource_group_name
}
```
- Add DNS Record to the Private DNS Zone
```tf
# add DNS record - add to DNS zone
resource "azurerm_private_dns_a_record" "pdns-a-postgres" {
  name                = split(".", "${azurerm_postgresql_server.keycloak-dbserver.fqdn}")[0]  # keycloakdbserver
  zone_name           = azurerm_private_dns_zone.pdns-postgres.name
  resource_group_name = var.resource_group_name
  ttl                 = 300
  records             = [azurerm_private_endpoint.pe-keycloak-db-server.private_service_connection[0].private_ip_address]
}
```
- Attach the Private DNS Zone to VNET
```tf
# Private DNS Zone association with VNET
resource "azurerm_private_dns_zone_virtual_network_link" "pdnslk-a-postgres" {
  count = length(var.private_endpoint_vnet_ids)
  name                  = format("pdnslk-a-postgres-%d", count.index)
  resource_group_name   = azurerm_resource_group.rg-rdb.name
  private_dns_zone_name = azurerm_private_dns_zone.pdns-postgres.name
  virtual_network_id    = var.private_endpoint_vnet_ids[count.index]
}
```

## Information about Custom DNS server

> Depending on customer requirements, DNS server could be deployed on a custom basis. It should be considered that the names resolving in the Private DNS Zone can also be resolved in the Custom DNS server configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on customer requirements, Customer DNS server could be selected. It should be considered that the names resolving in the Private DNS Zone can also be resolved in the Custom DNS server configuration.
```

> As a premise, Azure Provided DNS (196.63.129.16) refers to the Private DNS Zone attached to the VNET in question, and queries the higher (Public) DNS if it is unable to resolve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important thing to note, Azure Provided DNS (196.63.129.16) refers to the Private DNS Zone attached to its VNET, and if unable to resolve then queries the higher (Public) DNS.

#### Option 1: Use a DNS Forwarder with a Custom DNS Server

1. Attach the Private DNS Zone to the VNET where the Custom DNS server is located.    
1. Configure the Custom DNS server to refer to the Azure provided DNS (196.63.129.16) using DNS Forward.  
1. Specify the DNS server of the VNET where the AKS Worker Nodes are located as the IP of the custom DNS server.

![azure-nsg-aks](../../imgs/vantiq-install-closed-network-azure/dns-config-option1.png)

#### Option 2: Configure a Public DNS Zone

> 1. Attach the Private DNS Zone to the VNET where the AKS Worker Nodes.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Attach the Private DNS Zone to the VNET where the AKS Worker Nodes are hosted.
```

> 1. Specify the DNS server of the VNET where the AKS Worker Nodes are located as the default (Azure Provided DNS).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Specify the default DNS server (Azure Provided DNS) of the VNET where the AKS Worker Nodes are located.  
```

1. Register the DNS that is required for cross-referencing with other than the Vantiq infrastructure, in the Public DNS Zone.  

![azure-nsg-aks](../../imgs/vantiq-install-closed-network-azure/dns-config-option2.png)

#### References:
- [Name resolution that uses your own DNS server](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-name-resolution-for-vms-and-role-instances#name-resolution-that-uses-your-own-dns-server)
- [Azure Private Endpoint DNS configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-dns)
- [Network concepts for applications in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/concepts-network)

## Internet Gateway
For a Closed Networks, it is necessary to consider restricting Outbound connections to the Internet.  

> #### Do not restrict Outbound

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### In case the outbound is not to be restricted
```

Configure a NAT Gateway and attach it to the subnet where the AKS Worker Nodes are located.

> #### Restrict Outbound

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### In case the outbound is to be restricted

> Consider using a service such as Azure Firewall. With the Azure Firewall, it is possible to restrict traffic on the FQDN of the connection destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider using a service such as Azure Firewall, where it is possible to restrict traffic on the destination FQDN basis.
```
